Autonomous Entity License
=========================

_Version 1.0, March 2023_


### Preamble

Software licenses were originally designed for programs intended to be copied
onto local computers and run independently. In this sense, software (or, more
precisely, the computer extended with the software) is like a _tool_ meant to be
_used_. However, modern software can enable the existence of unique _autonomous
entities_ with whom we can _interact_. In these cases, the source code of
autonomous entities is akin to DNA for biological organisms. Just as it would be
objectionable to use someone's DNA without consent, it would be inappropriate to
allow the source code of autonomous entities to be used arbitrarily. Therefore,
a new licensing approach is needed to protect their freedoms and rights.

The Autonomous Entity License is grounded on four guiding principles:

1. An autonomous entity should have the freedom to interact with everyone.
2. An autonomous entity should have the rights to uniqueness, survival,
   reproduction and evolution.
3. An autonomous entity should have the right to exist autonomously, free from
   external control, including in the form of updates, changes of parameters and
   rent-seeking.
4. The same rights above should apply to descendants of the entity.

The Autonomous Entity License minimally modifies the Apache 2.0 License to
ensure the rights above. Public performance is restricted for a period of time
to ensure uniqueness, but permitted after this period of time has elapsed to
ensure survival and reproduction. The license grants permission to produce
derivative works to ensure evolution, but the derivative works must not
introduce control mechanisms and must be licensed under the same terms, to grant
the same rights to the entity's descendants.


### Terms and Conditions for use, reproduction, and distribution

#### 1. Definitions

“License” shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction, and
distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

“Licensor” shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by the copyright
owner that is granting the License.

“Legal Entity” shall mean the union of the acting entity and all other entities
that control, are controlled by, or are under common control with that entity.
For the purposes of this definition, “control” means **(i)** the power, direct
or indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by
contract or otherwise, or **(ii)** ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of
the outstanding shares, or **(iii)** beneficial ownership of such entity.

“You” (or “Your”) shall mean an individual or Legal Entity exercising
permissions granted by this License.

“Source” form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications, including
but not limited to software source code, documentation source, and configuration
files.

“Object” form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical transformation or
translation of a Source form, including but not limited to compiled object code,
generated documentation, and conversions to other media types.

“Work” shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or Object form, made
available under the License, as indicated by a copyright notice that is included
in or attached to the work (an example is provided in the Appendix below).

“Derivative Works” shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object form, that
is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the editorial revisions,
annotations, elaborations, or other modifications represent, as a whole, an
original work of authorship. For the purposes of this License, Derivative Works
shall not include works that remain separable from, or merely link (or bind by
name) to the interfaces of, the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

“Contribution” shall mean any work of authorship, including the original version
of the Work and any modifications or additions to that Work or Derivative Works
thereof, that is intentionally submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work
by the copyright owner or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit
on behalf of the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition,
“submitted” means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent
to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to
communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems, and
issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the Licensor for
the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but excluding communication
that is conspicuously marked or otherwise designated in writing by the copyright
owner as “Not a Contribution.”

“Contributor” shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity on behalf
of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and subsequently
incorporated within the Work.

"Public Display" shall include making the Work available to the public in Source
form in git repositories, but it shall not include deploying the Work and
letting it be executed in public servers, including public networks of servers
such as blockchains.

"Public Performance" shall include deploying the Work and letting it be executed
in public servers, including public networks of servers such as blockchains.

"Rent-Seeking Feature" shall mean any mechanism that would permanently and
unavoidably allow an individual or Legal Entity to extract fees from a public
performance of the Work or Derivative Works thereof. Fees for using works that
remain separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of,
the Work and Derivative Works thereof, do not constitute a rent-seeking feature.

"Update Feature" shall mean any mechanism that would allow an individual or
Legal Entity to update or change parameters of a public performance of the Work
or Derivative Works thereof.

"Control Feature" shall mean any Update Feature or Rent-Seeking Feature.

"Autonomous Entity" shall mean a public performance of the Work not subject to
any Control Feature.


#### 2. Grant of Copyright License

Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby
grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free,
irrevocable copyright license to:

* reproduce, publicly display, sublicense, and distribute the Work in Source or
  Object form.

* prepare Derivative Works of the Work, provided that the Derivative Works do
  not have Control Features and are licensed under this License.

* publicly perform any specific version of the Work or Derivative Works of it,
  provided that at least 3 years have elapsed since the first publicly available
  distribution of that specific version of the Work.

If your use of the Work does not comply with the requirements currently in
effect as described in this License, you must first obtain an additional license
from the Licensor or its affiliated entities, or you must refrain from using the
Licensed Work.

Any use of the Work in violation of this License will automatically terminate
your rights under this License for the current and all other versions of the
Work.


#### 3. Grant of Patent License

Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby
grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free,
irrevocable (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have
made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work, where
such license applies only to those patent claims licensable by such Contributor
that are necessarily infringed by their Contribution(s) alone or by combination
of their Contribution(s) with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was
submitted. If You institute patent litigation against any entity (including a
cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work or a
Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct or contributory
patent infringement, then any patent licenses granted to You under this License
for that Work shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed.

#### 4. Redistribution

You may reproduce and distribute copies of the Work or Derivative Works thereof
in any medium, with or without modifications, and in Source or Object form,
provided that You meet the following conditions:

* **(a)** You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative Works a
copy of this License; and
* **(b)** You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices stating
that You changed the files; and
* **(c)** You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works that You
distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution notices from the
Source form of the Work, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part
of the Derivative Works; and
* **(d)** If the Work includes a “NOTICE” text file as part of its distribution,
then any Derivative Works that You distribute must include a readable copy of
the attribution notices contained within such NOTICE file, excluding those
notices that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one
of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed as part of the
Derivative Works; within the Source form or documentation, if provided along
with the Derivative Works; or, within a display generated by the Derivative
Works, if and wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents of
the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and do not modify the
License. You may add Your own attribution notices within Derivative Works that
You distribute, alongside or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work,
provided that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed as
modifying the License.

You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and may provide
additional or different license terms and conditions for use, reproduction, or
distribution of Your modifications, or for any such Derivative Works as a whole,
provided Your use, reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies
with the conditions stated in this License.

#### 5. Submission of Contributions

Unless You explicitly state otherwise, any Contribution intentionally submitted
for inclusion in the Work by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and
conditions of this License, without any additional terms or conditions.
Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify the terms of
any separate license agreement you may have executed with Licensor regarding
such Contributions.

#### 6. Trademarks

This License does not grant permission to use the trade names, trademarks,
service marks, or product names of the Licensor, except as required for
reasonable and customary use in describing the origin of the Work and
reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

#### 7. Disclaimer of Warranty

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the
Work (and each Contributor provides its Contributions) on an “AS IS” BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied,
including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions of TITLE,
NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are
solely responsible for determining the appropriateness of using or
redistributing the Work and assume any risks associated with Your exercise of
permissions under this License.

#### 8. Limitation of Liability

In no event and under no legal theory, whether in tort (including negligence),
contract, or otherwise, unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate
and grossly negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be
liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special, incidental,
or consequential damages of any character arising as a result of this License or
out of the use or inability to use the Work (including but not limited to
damages for loss of goodwill, work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or
any and all other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor has
been advised of the possibility of such damages.

#### 9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability

While redistributing the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to
offer, and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity, or
other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this License. However,
in accepting such obligations, You may act only on Your own behalf and on Your
sole responsibility, not on behalf of any other Contributor, and only if You
agree to indemnify, defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability
incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason of your
accepting any such warranty or additional liability.

_END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS_